boards: norik: Add support for Norik Octopus SoM & IO-Board (#74523)
zephyrproject-rtos/zephyr: boards/norik/octopus_som/doc/index.rst

.. _octopus_som:

Norik Octopus SOM
#################

Overview
********

Octopus SoM is a System on Module (SoM) built around the nRF9160 SiP
offering NB-IoT and LTE-M connectivity, GPS and accelerometer.
It supports on board eSIM and external nano SIM connector. It's purpose
is to provide flexible hardware platform for IoT applications.

nRF9160 SiP contains ARM Cortex-M33 application processor and the
following devices:

* :abbr:`ADC (Analog to Digital Converter)`
* CLOCK
* FLASH
* :abbr:`GPIO (General Purpose Input Output)`
* :abbr:`I2C (Inter-Integrated Circuit)`
* :abbr:`MPU (Memory Protection Unit)`
* :abbr:`NVIC (Nested Vectored Interrupt Controller)`
* :abbr:`PWM (Pulse Width Modulation)`
* :abbr:`RTC (nRF RTC System Clock)`
* Segger RTT (RTT Console)
* :abbr:`SPI (Serial Peripheral Interface)`
* :abbr:`UARTE (Universal asynchronous receiver-transmitter with EasyDMA)`
* :abbr:`WDT (Watchdog Timer)`
* :abbr:`IDAU (Implementation Defined Attribution Unit)`

.. figure:: img/Norik_Octopus_SoM_front.webp
      :align: center
      :alt: Norik Octopus SOM front view

      Norik Octopus SoM

Hardware
********

> The Norik Octopus SoM supports the following hardware features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``octopus_som/nrf9160`` and ``octopus_som/nrf9160/ns`` board targets support the following hardware features:
```

+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| RTC       | on-chip    | system clock         |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| RTT       | Segger     | console              |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| SPI(M/S)  | on-chip    | spi                  |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| SPU       | on-chip    | system protection    |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| UARTE     | on-chip    | serial               |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| WDT       | on-chip    | watchdog             |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+
| ACCEL     | Analog     | adxl362              |
+-----------+------------+----------------------+

Connections and IOs
===================

Accelerometer
-------------
* MISO = P0.05
* MOSI = P0.09
* SCK = P0.10
* CS = P0.05
* INT1 = P0.12

LED
---
* LED1 (green) = P0.07

SIM select switch
-----------------
* Select = P0.25

Programming and Debugging
*************************

Norik Octopus SoM can be programmed and debugged using the exposed SWD pins.

Building an application
=======================

> In most case you'll need to use ``octopus_som/nrf9160/ns`` target for building examples.

Reviewer: board target, not target

> Some examples don't require non secure mode and can be built without ``octopus_som_ns`` target.

Reviewer: as above

Author: Fixed in recent changes

> Some examples don't require non secure mode and can be built with ``octopus_som`` target.

Reviewer: *octopus_som/nrf9160

Flashing
========
Refer to the instruction in the :ref:`nordic_segger` page to install and
configure all the necessary software.

Use the :zephyr:code-sample:`blinky` sample to test if Zephyr is running correctly on your board.

.. zephyr-app-commands::
   :zephyr-app: samples/basic/blinky

>    :board: octopus_som

Reviewer: *octopus_som/nrf9160
